You were in a field unit of the Army, and in active duty for a number of years.
Typical assignments involved visiting towns already under the banner of Embers to deal with local "wildlife", bandit problems, and the occasional uprising.
Twice you joined with other units as a show of force for towns who were refusing the terms laid upon them to join the Banner.
In neither case was violence required.

On that fated mission, you had made your way to a small town, basically a tiny outpost, in the Dark Wood - not under the Banner of Embers.
You had intel on a pretty sizeable operation producing a drug known as "Mollusk" based out of here, part of a larger criminal ring in these parts.
Your mission was to eliminate the operation, ideally taking prisoners, but using force as required.
As you described previously, it all went wrong, and led to your current predicament.

THE INCIDENT
The tale that the soldiers were told was they were out to destroy a factory producing Mollusk, an addictive drug that was permeating Risveld.
In reality, Mollusk was a chemical agent that was being used to stun constructs.
Didn't want word getting out that the source of this drug was Risveldian (a double agent) - plus, claiming it as a "bad drug" gives them moral high ground.
The unit setup outside this woodland "factory". Lenny was on the outside/support team, backing up the strike team
As the strike team entered facility, which was showing small signs of activity, there were a few moments of silence before a small explosion sounded - not part of the plan
As Lenny and the rest of the support team moved quickly into the building, a second, much larger fiery explosion rocked the facility, blasting Lenny back out of the facility, and he hit his head on a rock
As he came to he saw one of the strike team members rushing out of the building looking confused and terrified. Their clothes burned away, Lenny noticed an unusual tattoo on one arm
As this individual locked eyes with Lenny, he could see a look of uncertainty - they looked back over their shoulder into the now burning building, and fled without offering any assistance
Lenny struggled to his feet, moved back to the entrance, and saw, framed by flames a group of three well armed wood elven women locked in battle with a large horned fiend and a tiger-like humanoid in Risveldian garb
Lenny fled...

Lenny is probably presumed KIA.  And he just didn't do anything to disabuse Risveld of that opinion.
He peaced out pretty quickly.
After he was presumed KIA, he didn't want to stick around Risveld any longer than he had to, for fear that the army would pull him back in.
Disgusted and disillusioned as he was, he wanted to get out of Dodge relatively quickly.  (I'm not saying he left the next day, but no more than a few weeks.)
I think the only reason he would've stuck around Risveld was to rehabilitate and assemble his prosthetic arm/various shoulder/torso parts.
Once that was complete, I think he realized that he just needed to get away from it all.
