Alatheia left Sevenmeads when she was 14. She is about 25 now. She has avoided returning to Sevenmeads as much as possible. Once, she passed near the village when traveling with a merchant caravan, but she took care to make sure no one recognized her. She observed some of her siblings walking around the village, but did not approach them. Alatheia does not want to return to Sevenmeads because she has not fully forgiven her parents and she also harbors a tiny bit of guilt for leaving her siblings. She mostly compartmentalizes these things, though, and avoids thinking about her childhood as much as possible, preferring to think about her entrance into service of Sune as a kind of rebirth. To others, Alatheia would mostly share that she grew up in a small farming village, and the call of Sune brought her to the temple and eventually out into the world. She tries not to focus on her own wounds; she tries to heal others.

The Morrow family has a small plot of farmland with a small house. While it has been in the family for a few generations, the farm has never been hugely successful, and the Morrows have always been of modest means and, at times, struggled to stay out of poverty. Both of Alatheia's parents grew up in Sevenmeads and her mother, at least, has rarely left it. Alatheia's father struggled with managing the farm and throughout Alatheia's childhood, he began spending more and more time at the village tavern. On occasion, and then more frequently, he would come home drunk, leading to intense arguments. As Alatheia and her brother got older, they ended up shouldering more and more of the farm work and childcare duties. Alatheia's father sometimes left the family for a night, then a few days, then a few weeks, every now and then. There was a repeating cycle of large blow ups, walking out, then reconciliation. Reconciliation sometimes lead to more children, but more children of course added to the stress. He disappeared for about two months after the second-youngest child was born. After the youngest child was born, he left for good. Under the stress, Alatheia's mother became more and more bitter and sharp.

Being a generally happy-natured and charming person, Alatheia easily made friends around the village. However, as she got older, she became less close with her childhood friends for multiple reasons. First, she was more and more often the de facto nursemaid for her younger siblings. Second, middle school-aged girls can be mean as hell and being both poor and beautiful didn't always go over well.

For better or worse, it was apparent from a young age that Alatheia was very pretty, and as she entered adolescence she began to receive more and more (unwanted) attention for it. The town butcher, a man in his 40s, became particularly fixated and predatory. He made an offer of marriage, via Alatheia's mother, and as one of the more well-off people in the village, essentially offered a high "bride price" that would go a long way towards supporting the family (not to mention making one less mouth to feed). Alatheia's mother initially pushed back because of Alatheia's age, insisting that they could become formally bethrothed but not married - for at least two years. But eventually she tried to push Alatheia into it anyway, particularly by trying to make her feel guilty for the good it could do for her younger siblings. (Desperation can make monsters of us all.)

Alatheia was desperately afraid of this creepy man, was afraid of what her mother would try to do to force her into the marriage, and was afraid of what her siblings would learn from it. So she gathered up whatever supplies she could and ran away. Alatheia cleverly timed it so that she followed some merchants out of town. She trie to convince them to take her on as an assistant, but they said they could only give her a ride to the next town. Eventually, she stumbled upon the temple of Sune, completely by chance (although she has since wondered if it was divine intervention). Not knowing anything about what it was, she offered to work in the gardens or the kitchen. The head priestess saw the spark of Sune in her - although she only told Alatheia that she seemed wise and capable - and instead decided to take her on as a new initiate. The head priestess was the only one Alatheia told about her reasons for leaving home, and even that took several months of built up trust. At one point, a couple men came by the temple, asking around about a girl who matched Alatheia's description. The head priestess told them she had not seen anyone matching that description. Alatheia doesn't know if those men were sent by her family or by the butcher, or someone else.

Eventually, Alatheia began traveling with other priests/priestesses, first as an assistant acolyte and later, when she became a priestess in her own right, as a more junior priestess. They preached about Sune, but also performed many duties such as marriage ceremonies, funeral rights, assisting with births, and healing. She learned the healing arts (healer feat) from the other priests. Eventually, she went on travels further and further from the temple. She felt called to spread the light and love of Sune, and it was around this time that she began to have more visions and dreams and started to feel the first inkling of divine magic. All priests of Sune follow the tenents of love, beauty, etc., but Alatheia is especially passionate about things like freely choosing one's partner, celebrating healthy sexuality, protecting people from coercion, etc. (To quote Kushiel's Dart: "love as thou wilt.") She definitely takes pride in her appearance, but it fits in to her belief in bringing more beauty into the world (in other words, she doesn't think she is superior to others for being beautiful, but thinks it is not bad to take pleasure from it, and she genuinely believes that everyone is beautiful in their own way but.. believes in making an effort).

SEVENMEADS:
Elleth, Alatheia's mother
Robern, Alatheia's father
Siblings:
- Osrin, brother (2 years older = 16 when A. left, 27 now)
- Wynna, sister (4 years younger = 10 when A. left, 21 now):
- Tomund, brother (6 years younger: 8 when A. left, 19 now):
- Bertin ("Bertie"), brother (10 years younger: 4 when A. left, 15 now)
- Ellyn, sister (12 years younger: 2 when A. left, 13 now)

Raffolk, The butcher (human man)
Gwenalyn, Childhood friend, who remained friendly (halfing girl)
Brielle, Childhood friend, who became catty and mean (human girl)


TEMPLE:
Melira, Head Priestess (tiefling woman)
Sabeth, Priestess (an acolyte when she arrived, a few years older and Alatheia's closest friend) (human woman)
Gyles, Priest who was an expert healer (halfling man)
Toroden, Priest who she sometimes traveled with, and with whom she had an amicable, on-and-off, casual relationship (half-elf man)
Velia, Half orc, former Acolyte who is now a proper priestess
Torin, Human, Likes cigars
Manny & Petty - Twins

Soldiers
Hajara - Human, Colonel, Cured
  Back on the front lines
Carlysle - Half-orc, Lieutenant, was ailing, now healed
Jenreth - Saved from their battle with the Devils
Katrien - Wood Elf, Captain
Virgo - Halfling, Soldier