In the city of Veldstadt
Back before the calamity, in centuries prior, the group was known as the Royal Veil.
They were the elite spies and information network of the Emperor.
In the age of Emperor Szun, they saw a dark change coming to the Empire and conspired against the Emperor
A failed attempt at a coup sent the organization scattering.
They reconvened in secret, taking a new name, the Shadow Veil

 the Shadow Veil existed in OLD CITY (now known as Risveld)
They fought against Emperor Szun and what they saw as oppressive, exploitative government.
At the Cataclysm, Emperor Szun saved his people by preserving the weave.
Though it was a disaster, casualties were less than 1% of what the rest of the plane experienced.
After that, and in what still became a time of crisis, the populace of OLD CITY galvanized around THE LEADER, and the influence of the Veil waned sharply
The organization carried on in small, secret ways for hundreds of years, one of which was a tattoo. More later
As the plane eventually stabilized, and Risveld began to grow in power, and the corrupt ambitions of THE LEADER were felt once again.
The Shadow Veil reformed, operating in the city and on the war front.
The government came down on them hard in the city itself, but it's possible shreds of their remaining ranks still operate in the city.

The Tattoo was conceived of by one of their own prodigal mages of the time.
The tattoo is many things. It is a runic focus for magical energy, fueled by Ki.
It is also a representation of the Veil's greatest asset - access to the inner workings of the city, the ancient tunnels beneath, and the structures that have been and still are.
A secret network of underground tunnels was constructed in the times before the calamity, and since forgotten.
These tunnels emerge into seven structures in the central city, which in the times before housed some of the most important functions of the city government, including the palace itself.
Since then, some of the buildings have been repurposed, but the central palace still remains.
When viewing the tattoo, parts of the enchanted runes appear to be missing. When the tattoo activates, those missing bits are highlighted.
Looking at the missing bits reveals different Old Antalian characters which are shorthand for the different buildings (i.e. Library, Bank), reasonably well known by anyone familiar with central Risveld.
