General Summary

Risveld is built on a large natural lake, adjacent to a massive mountain range to the south and east. Surrounding it to the north and extending far to the west is the South wood, or "Wild Wood" - a warm, wet, but still seasonal forest teeming with life and full of natural dangers. If you travel north from the city, you eventually reach the end of the mountain range, and can continue to the East wood, or "Dark Wood", which wraps the same mountain range and eventually continues to the south.
The central city is walled and heavily fortified, but the populace extends far beyond those walls. At the edges of the city are extensive farms which feed most of the populace. 
 The city is built atop ruins of a previous civilization. Many houses will have an ancient solid-stone foundation, with the rest of the house built primarily from stone bricks and wood fused to the base. In certain places you will find mechanical elements, vestiges of a past, more advanced city. Artificer magic is considered closely guarded property of Risveld, though more and more of it is being integrated into daily life in the city over time. 
 Risveld is ruled as an autocracy. Many aspects of public life are closely monitored and controlled by the government. There is a single leader, Olthan the All Knowing, who rarely appears in public, and there are a number of Ministers who serve as the public figureheads overseeing different aspects of the city government and the growing empire abroad. No one is exactly sure of Olthan's identity or nature, and rumors abound. It is said that they are a powerful mage, and most believe them to be an ancient Wood Elf - and possibly even a High Elf. Some believe they are a lich, while others claim they are a dragon in disguise. Others suspect Olthan is not a single individual, but a rotating cast of characters, and is more of a tool the Ministers use to keep the public in line.  Risveld has long held and practiced an imperialist world view, seeing all other societies as less advanced and thus in need of "civilization". The empire, as it is called, has been gradually expanding over the past century throughout towns and settlements in the Wild Wood and Dark Wood - only recently meeting resistance from some Wood Elf enclaves to the east. Risveld maintains a strong and robust military, though only uses aggression and violence as a last resort. The typical process of absorbing a town, settlement, or small city into the empire starts with some amount of coercion and/or economic pressure - convincing the citizens that they'd be better off becoming part of the empire. 
 Magic is controlled within the city - there are no surges within a certain radius, but within that same radius the authorities have knowledge when magic is used and by whom. Unauthorized use of magic is not permitted.

Answers to Dena's questions

Q: What is the race of the ruling family?
A: Beyond Olthan, the ministers are a variety of races, primarily Human and Wood Elf.

Q: What races are generally found in Risveld?
A:The populace is highly diverse.
Humans are the dominant group by a small margin.
Other common races include Wood Elves, Half Elves and Gnomes.
Less common are Dwarves, Tieflings, Dragonborn, Halflings, Half-orcs, Kenku, and Tabaxi.
Genasi and Aasimar are universally rare, and all other races would be considered rare in the city.

Q: Do the people of Risveld like the rulers (like Singapore, or are they psychopaths like NK)?
A: Most people are fine with the rulers, as it's easy to find a comfortable life in the city if you are willing to play by the rules.
Many individuals without personal wealth or resources find their way through the military, where they are provided for and ultimately find good lives.
There are, however, many who find the regime overbearing and harbor resentment towards the leaders.
Punishments can be harsh for those who break the rules.

Q: Is there a reason Risveld and the Wood Elves started fighting or was it more that Risveld wanted to conquer more land?
A: Basically yeah, Risveld was expanding, and the Elves weren't having it.
The different enclaves formed an alliance against Risveld to hold the wood, but that alliance has all but been broken at this point.

Q: Can you talk more about the political climate in Risveld - are there any uprisings, bandits, who are the faction leaders against the rulers (if there are any)?
A: There's no public movement against the regime within the city, but there are definitely splinter factions of the wood elf resistance across the region, and at least one within the city itself, who would be working to subvert and ultimately overthrow the Empire, but it's been tough going.
Any public signs of dissent within the city and its territories are quickly extinguished.
There are definitely a few double agents for the enclaves embedded in Risveld society, siphoning information to the different resistance groups.
